A 3D Content Retrieval system is a computer system for browsing, searching and retrieving three dimensional digital
contents e.g.: Computer-aided design, molecular biology models, and cultural heritage 3D scenes, etc.from a large
database of digital images. The most original way of doing 3D content retrieval uses methods to add description text
to 3D content files such as the content file name, link text, and the web page title so that related 3D content can
be found through text retrieval. Because of the inefficiency of manually annotating 3D files, researchers have investigated
ways to automate the annotation process and provide a unified standard to create text descriptions for 3D contents. Moreover,
the increase in 3D content has demanded and inspired more advanced ways to retrieve 3D information. Thus, shape matching methods
for 3D content retrieval have become popular. Shape matching retrieval is based on techniques that compare and contrast similarities
between 3D models.This method describes 3D models by using a skeleton. The skeleton encodes the geometric and topological information
in the form of a skeletal graph and uses graph matching techniques to match the skeletons and compare them. However, this method requires
a 2-manifold input model, and it is very sensitive to noise and details. Many of the existing 3D models are created for visualization purposes,
while missing the input quality standard for the skeleton method. The skeleton 3D retrieval method needs more time and effort before it can be
used widely.Unlike Skeleton modeling, which requires a high quality standard for the input source, statistical methods do not put restriction
on the validity of an input source. Shape histograms, feature vectors composed of global geo-metic properties such as circularity and eccentricity,
and feature vectors created using frequency decomposition of spherical functions are common examples of using statistical methods to describe 3D information. 
In Purdue University, researchers led by Professor Karthik Ramani at the Research and Education Center for Information created a 3D search engine called the 3D 
Engineering Search System . It is designed to find computer-generated engineering parts.The mechanism behind this search engine is that it starts from
an algorithm which can transform query drawing to voxels, then extracts the most important shape information from the voxels by using another algorithm called
thinning, and formulates a skeleton of the object’s outlines and topology. After that, 3DESS will develop a skeletal graph to render the skeleton, using three
common topological constructs: loops, edges, and nodes. The processed common constructs graph can reduce the data amount to represent an object, and it is easier
to store and index the description in a database. According to the lead professor, 3DESS can also describe objects using feature vectors, such as volume,
surface area, etc. The system processes queries by comparing their feature vectors or skeletal graphs with data stored in the database. When the system retrieves
models in response to the query, users can pick whichever object looks more similar to what they want and leave feedback.  