Computer-aided design  is the use of computers  to aid in the creation, modification, analysis,
or optimization of a design. This software is used to increase the productivity of the designer, improve the quality
of design, improve communications through documentation, and to create a database for manufacturing. Designs made through
CAD software are helpful in protecting products and inventions when used in patent applications. CAD output is often in the
form of electronic files for print, machining, or other manufacturing operations. The terms computer-aided drafting  and
computer aided design and drafting are also used.Its use in designing electronic systems is known as electronic design
automation . In mechanical design it is known as mechanical design automation , which includes the process of creating
a technical drawing with the use of computer software. CAD software for mechanical design uses either vector-based graphics to depict
the objects of traditional drafting, or may also produce raster graphics showing the overall appearance of designed objects. However,
it involves more than just shapes. As in the manual drafting of technical and engineering drawings, the output of CAD must convey information,
such as materials, processes, dimensions, and tolerances, according to application-specific conventions.CAD may be used to design curves and figures
in two-dimensional  space; or curves, surfaces, and solids in three-dimensional  space. CAD is an important industrial art extensively
used in many applications, including automotive, shipbuilding, and aerospace industries, industrial and architectural design ,
prosthetics, and many more. CAD is also widely used to produce computer animation for special effects in movies, advertising and technical manuals,
often called DCC digital content creation. The modern ubiquity and power of computers means that even perfume bottles and shampoo dispensers are designed
using techniques unheard of by engineers of the 1960s. Because of its enormous economic importance, CAD has been a major driving force for research in
computational geometry, computer graphics , and discrete differential geometry.The design of geometric models for object
shapes, in particular, is occasionally called computer-aided geometric design . CAD is also used for the accurate creation of photo simulations
that are often required in the preparation of environmental impact reports, in which computer-aided designs of intended buildings are superimposed into
