photographs of existing environments to represent what that locale will be like, where the proposed facilities are allowed
to be built. Potential blockage of view corridors and shadow studies are also frequently analyzed through the use of CAD.
CAD has been proven to be useful to engineers as well. Using four properties which are history, features, parameterization,
and high-level constraints. The construction history can be used to look back into the model's personal features and work on
the single area rather than the whole model. Parameters and constraints can be used to determine the size, shape, and other
properties of the different modeling elements. The features in the CAD system can be used for the variety of tools for measurement
such as tensile strength, yield strength, electrical, or electromagnetic properties. Also its stress, strain, timing, or how the element
gets affected in certain temperatures, etc. There are several different types of CAD, each requiring the operator to think differently
about how to use them and design their virtual components in a different manner for each.There are many producers of the lower-end 2D systems,
including a number of free and open-source programs. These provide an approach to the drawing process without all the fuss over scale and placement
on the drawing sheet that accompanied hand drafting since these can be adjusted as required during the creation of the final draft. 3D wireframe is
basically an extension of 2D drafting . Each line has to be manually inserted into the drawing. The final product has no mass
properties associated with it and cannot have features directly add to it, such as holes. The operator approaches these in a similar fashion to the 2D
systems, although many 3D systems allow using the wireframe model to make the final engineering drawing views.3D "dumb" solids are created in a way analogous
to manipulations of real-world objects . Basic three-dimensional geometric forms have solid volumes
added or subtracted from them as if assembling or cutting real-world objects. Two-dimensional projected views can easily be generated from the models. Basic 3D
solids don't usually include tools to easily allow the motion of the components, set their limits to their motion, or identify interference between components.
There are two types of 3D solid modelingParametric modeling allows the operator to use what is referred to as "design intent". The objects and features are created
modifiable. Any future modifications can be made by changing on how the original part was created. If a feature was intended to be located from the center of the part,
the operator should locate it from the center of the model. The feature could be located using any geometric object already available in the part, but this random placement
would defeat the design intent. If the operator designs the part as it functions the parametric modeler is able to make changes to the part while maintaining geometric and
functional relationships.  