Originally software for CAD systems was developed with computer languages such as Fortran, ALGOL but with the
advancement of object-oriented programming methods this has radically changed. Typical modern parametric feature-based
modeler and freeform surface systems are built around a number of key C modules with their own APIs. A CAD system can be seen
as built up from the interaction of a graphical user interface with NURBS geometry or boundary representation data
via a geometric modeling kernel. A geometry constraint engine may also be employed to manage the associative relationships between
geometry, such as wireframe geometry in a sketch or components in an assembly.Unexpected capabilities of these associative relationships
have led to a new form of prototyping called digital prototyping. In contrast to physical prototypes, which entail manufacturing time in
the design. That said, CAD models can be generated by a computer after the physical prototype has been scanned using an industrial CT scanning
machine. Depending on the nature of the business, digital or physical prototypes can be initially chosen according to specific needs.Today, CAD
systems exist for all the major platforms;some packages support multiple platforms.Currently, no special hardware
is required for most CAD software. However, some CAD systems can do graphically and computationally intensive tasks, so a modern graphics card, high speed
CPUs and large amounts of RAM may be recommended.The human-machine interface is generally via a computer mouse but can also be via a
pen and digitizing graphics tablet. Manipulation of the view of the model on the screen is also sometimes done with the use of a Spacemouse/SpaceBall. Some systems
also support stereoscopic glasses for viewing the 3D model. Technologies which in the past were limited to larger installations or specialist applications have become
available to a wide group of users. These include the CAVE or HMDs and interactive devices like motion-sensing technology Starting around the mid-1960s, with the IBM
Drafting System, computer-aided design systems began to provide more capability than just an ability to reproduce manual drafting with electronic drafting, the
cost-benefit for companies to switch to CAD became apparent. The benefits of CAD systems over manual drafting are the capabilities one often takes for granted
from computer systems today; automated generation of bills of materials, auto layout in integrated circuits, interference checking, and many others. Eventually,
CAD provided the designer with the ability to perform engineering calculations. During this transition, calculations were still performed either by hand or by those
individuals who could run computer programs. CAD was a revolutionary change in the engineering industry, where draftsmen, designers, and engineering roles begin to merge.
