It did not eliminate departments as much as it merged departments and empowered draftsmen, designers, and engineers.
CAD is an example of the pervasive effect computers were beginning to have on the industry. Current computer-aided design
software packages range from 2D vector-based drafting systems to 3D solid and surface modelers. Modern CAD packages can also
frequently allow rotations in three dimensions, allowing viewing of a designed object from any desired angle, even from the inside
looking out. Some CAD software is capable of dynamic mathematical modeling.CAD technology is used in the design of tools and machinery
and in the drafting and design of all types of buildings, from small residential types to the largest commercial and industrial
structures.CAD is mainly used for detailed engineering of 3D models or 2D drawings of physical components, but i
is also used throughout the engineering process from conceptual design and layout of products, through strength and dynamic analysis of assemblie
to definition of manufacturing methods of components. It can also be used to design objects such as jewelry, furniture, appliances, etc. Furthermore,
many CAD applications now offer advanced rendering and animation capabilities so engineers can better visualize their product designs. 4D BIM is a type of
virtual construction engineering simulation incorporating time or schedule-related information for project management.CAD has become an especially
important technology within the scope of computer-aided technologies, with benefits such as lower product development costs and a greatly shortened design
cycle. CAD enables designers to layout and develop work on screen, print it out and save it for future editing, saving time on their drawings.
CAD software enables engineers and architects to design, inspect and manage engineering projects within an integrated graphical user interface
on a personal computer system. Most applications support solid modeling with boundary representation and NURBS geometry, and enable
the same to be published in a variety of formats. A geometric modeling kernel is a software component that provides solid modeling and surface modeling
features to CAD applications.Based on market statistics, commercial software from Autodesk, Dassault Systems, Siemens PLM Software, and PTC dominate the
CAD industry. The following is a list of major CAD applications, grouped by usage statistics. 