Lisa is a desktop computer developed by Apple, released on January 19, 1983. It is one of the first personal computers to present a
graphical user interface in a machine aimed at individual business users. Its development began in 1978. It underwent many changes
before shipping at US$9,995 with a five-megabyte hard drive. It was affected by its high price, insufficient
software, unreliable Apple FileWare floppy disks, and the immediate release of the cheaper and faster Macintosh. Only 10,000 were sold in two years.
Considered a commercial failure, Lisa introduced a number of advanced features that reappeared on the Macintosh
and eventually IBM PC compatibles. Among them is an operating system with protected memory and a document-oriented workflow. The hardware was more
advanced overall than the forthcoming Macintosh 128K; the Lisa included hard disk drive support, capacity for up to 2 megabytes of random-access memory,
expansion slots, and a larger, higher-resolution display.The complexity of the Lisa operating system and its associated programs,
as well as the ad hoc protected memory implementation, placed a high demand on the CPU and, to some extent, the storage system.
As a result of cost-cutting measures designed to bring it more into the consumer market, advanced software, and factors such as the delayed availability of the 68000
and its impact on the design process, Lisa's user experience feels sluggish overall. The workstation-tier price 
and lack of a technical software application library made it a difficult sell for much of the technical workstation market. Compounding matters, the runaway success
of the IBM PC and Apple's decision to compete with itself, mainly via the lower-cost Macintosh, were further impediments to its acceptance.In 1982, after Steve Jobs
was forced out of the Lisa project by Apple's board of directors, he appropriated the Macintosh project from Jef Raskin, who had originally conceived of a sub-$1,000 text-based
appliance computer in 1979. Jobs immediately redefined Macintosh as a less expensive and more focused version of the graphical Lisa.

